---
title: Configuration
description: How to configure nuxt-locker in your app.
icon: 'lucide:settings'
---

Below are the default settings:

::code-group
  ```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
  export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
      "nuxt-locker",
    ],
    nuxtLocker: {
      enabled: true,
      protectAllRoutes: true,
      protectedPaths: [],
      age: 2592000,
      theme: "dark",
      customConfig: {
        verifyEndpoint: "/api/nuxt-locker-verify",
        loginRoute: "/nuxt-locker",
        cookieName: "nuxt-locker"
      }
    }
  });
  ```
::

## Options

::field-group
  ::field{name="enabled" type="boolean" defaultValue="true"}
  Determines whether `nuxt-locker` is enabled. If set to `false`, the login page, API endpoint, and middleware will not be added to your application.
  ::

  ::field{name="password" type="string" required}
  You must set `password` in `nuxtLocker` or use the `process.env.NUXT_LOCKER_PASSWORD` environment variable.
  ::

  ::field{name="jwtSecret" type="string" required}
  JWT secret used for authentication. You must set `jwtSecret` in `nuxtLocker` or use the `process.env.NUXT_LOCKER_JWT_SECRET` environment variable.
  ::

  ::field{name="protectAllRoutes" type="boolean" defaultValue="true"}
  If set to `true`, every route is protected. If `false`, only the specified `protectedPaths` are protected.
  ::

  ::field{name="protectedPaths" type="array" defaultValue="[]"}
  Array of route patterns to protect (e.g., `["/secret", "/protected"]`). Only used if `protectAllRoutes` is set to `false`.
  ::

  ::field{name="age" type="number" defaultValue="2592000"}
  The maximum age of the authentication cookie in seconds. For example, `3600` equals 1 hour.
  ::

  ::field{name="theme" type="'dark' | 'light'" defaultValue="dark"}
  Name of the built-in CSS theme for the login page.
  ::

  ::field{name="contactEmail" type="string" defaultValue="undefined"}
  If set, the logic page will specify this email address for users to request access.
  ::

  ::field{name="customConfig.verifyEndpoint" type="string" defaultValue="/api/nuxt-locker-verify"}
  Custom endpoint for password verification.
  ::

  ::field{name="customConfig.loginRoute" type="string" defaultValue="/nuxt-locker"}
  Custom route for the login page.
  ::

  ::field{name="customConfig.cookieName" type="string" defaultValue="nuxt-locker"}
  Custom cookie name for storing the authentication token.
  ::
::

## Customizing CSS

For complete customization of the login page, refer to the original [`dark.css`](https://github.com/kalix127/nuxt-locker/blob/main/src/runtime/assets/dark.css).

1. **Add Custom CSS**

   Add your custom styles in your project's main css file.

   ```css
   .nuxt-locker {
     --nuxt-locker-background: #your-custom-background;
     --nuxt-locker-foreground: #your-custom-foreground;
     --nuxt-locker-primary: #your-custom-primary;
     /* more customizations... */
   }
   ```

2. **Adjust Color Variables**

   You can update CSS variables or any styles defined in our `dark.css` to match your desired theme.
